

--- Page 1 ---
THursoay, JuLy 24,2025 Borneo Bulletin. | 29
Deparment of treeunnent fans an Recreation
Mrsty of Deveogmert
‘brome Danco
INVITATION TO TENDER
‘TENDER REF. NO. JASTRE/BKP/RFP/01/2025
The Department of Environment, Parks and Recreation UJASTRe), Ministry of Development hereby invites
interested companies (local and/or international) meeting the below qualifying
criteria to submit their Tender for the works below.
REF NO.: JASTRE/BKP/RFP/O1/2025 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL TO INVEST, DESIGN, BUILD, OWN,
OPERATE AND TRANSFER WASTE TO ENERGY PLANT AT LOT 17394,
KG, SG. PAKU, TUTONG, NEGARA BRUNE! DARUSSALAM
Who are qualified to apply?
Interested companies must be experienced in developing and operating Waste to Energy plant.
Local companies, including Contractors registered with the Ministry of Development may form a Joint
Venture/ Consortium with other reputable and experienced international companies as necessary to meet
the qualification criteria and to execute the scope of works required for the Project.
Qualification requirements:
Tenderers must have previous proven and demonstrated track record in designing, building and operating
waste to energy projects (within the last ten (10) years)
{i Local companies / Contractors registered with the Ministry of Development who does not have such
experience may form a Joint Venture (incorporated) with other international companies who have
such experience. For the purposes of this requirement, the term Joint Venture Company refers to:-
4. Joint equity participation between local company(s) ot local companys) and intemational partner(s)
'b. Actively managed by both parties
<< Registered under the Companies Act (Cap 39) in Brunel Darussalam
i. In such scenario the Tenderer must furnish following additional details:
Details of Joint Venture whether its an existing ora proposed formation
{in the event ofa future formation, anticipated timeline to form a Joint Venture Company from the date of
Award Notification after Tender
Memorandum of Understanding to form Joint Venture
Draft Joint Venture Agreement with terms including but not limited to equity share, management
responsibilities, nominated lead for the Joint Venture, roles and responsibilities of the Joint Venture


--- Page 2 ---
partners, confirmation to be jointly and severally bound for liabilities etc,
|v. For the purposes of the design & other associated deliverables and authority approvals, the Tenderer shall
propose following minimum consultants as domestic sub-contractors: -
4. Engineering design house that has proven track record of similar projects with integration capabilities of
various disciplines including, but not limited to, such as civil, structural, electrical, mechanical,
‘Process, automation, control, optimisation and technical safety,
'b. Architectural consultancy with BAPEQS Practicing Certificate,
& Allabove engineering deliverables shall comply with the Architects, Professional Engineers and Quantity
Surveyors Order 2011,
d._ Independent Accredited Checker in accordance with local regulations,
€ Environmental consultant registered with JASTRe for EIA and EMMP for both construction and operation
phases.
¥. For the purposes of the construction, the Tenderer shall propose following minimum contractors as
domestic sub-contractors (or otherwise as member of Joint Venture / Consortium);
Building and Civil Works Contractor - must have a valid registration with the Ministry of Development with a
minimum of Class Vi Contractor with minimum categories of KAD and 801 and have
‘elevant past experience
b. Mechanical & Electrical Works Contractor - must have a valid registration with the Ministry of Development
with a minimum of Class V and/or above with minimum categories E01, £02, £03, E05, MO},
M03 and KPMEOS and have relevant past experience
WL. The Tenderer who in the case of a consortium, shall be the lead member of the consortium, shall have
an average annual turnover of BS 25,000,000.00 (Brunel Dollars Twenty-Five Million) for the past five
(5) years of which any two consecutive years shall have a minimum of BS 40,000,000,00 (Brunei Dollars
Forty Million) annual turnover.
Vil, Joint Venture shall have a lead member. The lead member shall be capable of carrying out works of this
nature. All members of the Joint Venture shall be bound jointly and severally f selected.
wil, Tenderers are required to submit a Tender Security in the form of a Bank Guarantee for an amount of
B$4,000,000.00 (Brunei Dollars Four Million) accompanied with their Tender in the format prescribed
inthe Tender.
Summary of Scope of Works
Following is the summary of scope of works:
(a) Invest for the entire project from Design-Build Period to Operations Service Period
(b) Design, Build, Operate and Maintain the following
8 Waste wy Energy Plant and assucieted infiestivcture arn arciiory feuities capable uf processing all Municipal
Suki Waste dectiveved to the faulty,
'b. Potable and fre-water supply reticulation,


--- Page 3 ---
< Raw water supply reticulation and storage and
4. 11KV or 66KV network power export infrastructure (depending on the power generation capacity
proposed),
(©) Transfer the facilities to JASTRe at the end of the Operations Service Period
{@) Generated power shall be exported to the Department of Electrical Services Grid at Jalan Telisal in
accordance with the Power Purchase Agreement with Department of Electrical Services as stipulated in
the Tender
{€) Optional scope for Decommissioning at the end of the Operations Service Period
Project Timeline
{a}, Design-Build Period including financial closure, authorities approval, testing and commissioning not more
than forty eight (48) months from the signing of the Contract
{b) Operations Period of twenty five (25) years with an optional extension for further five (5) years.
How to register?
Interested parties shall register with JASTRe by sending an email with subject “REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
TO INVEST, DESIGN, BUILD, OWN, OPERATE AND TRANSFER WASTE TO ENERGY PLANT AT LOT
17394, KG.
‘SG. PAKU, TUTONG, NEGARA BRUNE! DARUSSALAM" to jastre.wte.fp@env.gov.bn with a copy of their
Company Registration / Incorporation in their country of operations. Local companies / contractors may
send the above email with Company Registration, Form ‘x’ and/or Valid Contractor's registration with the
Ministry of Development (ABC. interested parties will be issued via email with a Confidentiality,
‘hve deaatine ror the payment of non-retunaabie tender and e-Gocumient fees snail De no later nan s:Upm
on 4tn September 2029 (\nursaay).
ange
The deadline for submission of Tender response is no later than 2:00pm on on 28th October 2025 (Tuesday)
to the below address. Late submissions will not be entertained.
‘Address for submission:
‘The Chairman,
Mini Tender Board,
Ministry of Development,
Ground Floor, Ministry of Development Building.
Old Airport Road, Berakas,
Bandar Seri Begawan, 853510,
Negara Brunel Darussalam
